On the subject of punctuality,
we wanted to share an example
of how ingrained a problem can become
if we let it fester.
Meet Brother Peter Zak.
As he relates his story,
look for ways punctuality,
or promptly addressing matters,
could have helped him to minimize
the effects of the problem.
I was born in Poland,
and when I was about five years old,
my family immigrated to Canada.
I feel that from a young age
I really loved Jehovah.
I had a good relationship with him.
I enjoyed going in field service;
I enjoyed the congregation.
But like all youths,
I had my distractions, you could say.
And for me, in particular,
it was video games.
I remember in the beginning
even my parents would set some rules.
But as I kept progressing
in that game
and I started participating
in tournaments,
I started getting recognized
and admired.
It started becoming a temptation.
People would go to download
my previously played games
to study my techniques
and my strategies.
I was interviewed by different websites.
People wanted to be on my team.
I could see that this world
was slowly dragging me in.
For example, there was
a huge tournament that I participated in.
I finished very well
—received many prizes.
And then after that tournament,
there was another tournament,
even bigger, with huge prizes
—cash prizes—
a competition for all the best players
in the world.
At this time, also,
the website was growing.
We were just sponsored to produce
our own tournament
with cash prizes for the players.
So I really thought that this would be
an opportunity for me
to maybe have a career
and maybe to support myself
in the future
if I wanted to pioneer.
And I thought
that this was a realistic goal.
But as the website also kept progressing
and as I got more involved with it,
I realized that what I was exposed to
was very, very, dangerous
—very harmful.
They were immoral,
wicked, improper things.
I was going to the meetings,
and I was going in service;
but at the same time, all my other time
was spent on this video game.
But it was only slowly,
over time, I started realizing
that it was having
a very negative effect on my spirituality.
I noticed that when I was in service,
I would think only about the video game.
When the service was over,
I would rush home to play the video game.
Even at meetings—
I would attend all my meetings,
but I would sit there
and nothing was coming in.
I went there in person,
but my mind wasn’t there.
So that also started bothering me.
And at this time,
my older brothers
—who were always
a good example to me—
they quit playing games.
They were making improvement
in the congregation;
they were having privileges,
working hard for the brothers
and sisters in our congregation.
I could see they were so happy.
They had the real joy
and satisfaction.
But for me, I didn’t;
I was always feeling empty inside.
I needed to change.
And I remember, in particular,
one day at the back of the Kingdom Hall,
the brother—an elder—who studied
with me and my two brothers
approached me;
and he very reasonably talked to me
about my future.
He also helped me see
my brothers
and how they stopped,
and they were so happy.
And I could see the difference.
I was serving
two masters at the same time,
but I was really losing out
with Jehovah.
So I knew I had
to make drastic changes in my life.
Up until then, I did try a few times
to stop playing video games.
And it worked for a couple of days,
but I got right back into it.
I lacked self-control.
So I realized that for me—
If I wanted to stop this,
I needed to make
a complete stop of everything.
So I prayed about it.
I asked Jehovah
for help and for strength
to give me the courage
to take this action.
We took down the website,
deleted the games,
stopped playing the games,
and just made
a clean sweep—clean stop.
And I knew I needed that.
Right after,
I felt like a load was lifted.
I had all this time
now I could spend,
and I was spending it
more in the ministry
and in the congregation.
So, soon after,
I started auxiliary pioneering
and then regular pioneering.
I started doing a lot more
in the congregation.
I could see how happy I was.
It was bringing me real joy
—satisfaction.
So I remember
after pioneering for a few years,
I started learning a foreign language.
It was challenging,
but it was exciting.
I moved to another city
to expand my ministry;
then I moved to another country.
And I remember just studying
with people
as a need-greater
and just seeing them
progress and seeing how they
made changes in their lives
and how they started
having a relationship with Jehovah.
And that I was being used
to help them to get to that point
was such an amazing feeling.
Now I have the privilege
of serving at Bethel.
And I can see
Jehovah’s hand in my life,
and also I’m able
to give every day to him.
This is the joy that I was looking for.
So I would definitely
encourage all young ones
to really test out Jehovah.
It’s like Ecclesiastes 12:1,
my favorite scripture growing up.
Just give to Jehovah;
test him out; give him your everything.
And you will see
that you’ll have no regrets.
You’ll have true satisfaction
from serving him.